## Abstract Class:
- An abstract class is a class that defines a generalized form to be shared by its subclasses, with each subclass responsible for implementing the details.
- Abstract methods are methods that must be overridden by the subclass in order to have any meaning.
- Abstract methods are declared using the "abstract" modifier: `abstract returnType methodName(parameterList);`
- Any class that contains one or more abstract methods must also be declared as abstract.
- Abstract classes cannot be instantiated, but they can be used to create object references.
- Abstract classes can have concrete methods (methods with a body) in addition to abstract methods.
- Abstract classes cannot have abstract constructors or abstract static methods.

Example:

```java
abstract class Shape {
    abstract void draw(); // Abstract method
    
    void displayArea() {
        System.out.println("Area: ");
    }
}

class Circle extends Shape {
    void draw() {
        System.out.println("Drawing a circle");
    }
    
    // Non-abstract method from the abstract class
    void displayArea() {
        super.displayArea();
        System.out.println("Circle area calculation");
    }
}

class Rectangle extends Shape {
    void draw() {
        System.out.println("Drawing a rectangle");
    }
}
```

Interface:
- An interface is a collection of abstract methods that define a contract for classes implementing the interface.
- Interfaces can only have abstract methods by default.
- Interface methods are implicitly public and abstract, so the "public" and "abstract" modifiers are not required.
- Interfaces can also have static and default methods (with a body) starting from Java 8.
- Variables declared in an interface are implicitly final (constants).
- Interfaces are implemented by classes using the "implements" keyword: `class ClassName implements InterfaceName`

Example:

```java
interface Printable {
    void print(); // Abstract method
    
    default void getInfo() {
        System.out.println("Printing information");
    }
    
    static void staticMethod() {
        System.out.println("Static method in interface");
    }
}

class Document implements Printable {
    public void print() {
        System.out.println("Printing document");
    }
}
```

Comparison between Abstract Classes and Interfaces:
- Type of Methods:
  - Interfaces: Only abstract methods (can have default and static methods from Java 8 onwards).
  - Abstract Classes: Can have abstract and non-abstract methods (including default and static methods).
- Final Variables:
  - Interfaces: Variables are implicitly final (constants).
  - Abstract Classes: Can have final and non-final variables.
- Type of Variables:
  - Interfaces: Can have only static and final variables.
  - Abstract Classes: Can have static, final, non-static, and non-final variables.
- Implementation:
  - Interfaces: Cannot provide method implementation, only method signatures.
  - Abstract Classes: Can provide method implementation.
- Inheritance vs Abstraction:
  - Interfaces: Implemented using the "implements" keyword.
  - Abstract Classes: Extended using the "extends" keyword and can implement multiple interfaces.
- Accessibility of Data Members:
  - Interfaces: Members are public by default.
  - Abstract Classes: Members can have various access modifiers.
